Our company develops and manufactures heat pumps for family homes. I work in the product development department as product owner. In this role, I am responsible for our “Smart-Heat” product, which is the next version we will offer on the market. The “Smart-Heat” product consists of the indoor module and the outdoor module. The outdoor module also consists of two modules: the photovoltaic module and the outdoor air exchange unit. The company has the main goal to provide the most energy-efficient heating solution on the market. The problem we have to solve is that the energy consumption of the current product version is too high. I am responsible for solving the problem and reaching the goal. When breaking down our main goal, we defined two sub-goals: to minimize the energy consumption of the heat pump and to produce the remaining energy required by the heat pump with the integrated photovoltaic module.
I am also in charge of the product innovation process for “Smart-Heat” and its two steps. The first step in this process is target setting. In target setting, we need the customer survey as input and use it to develop the list of target features. The customer survey provides an overview of what our customers expect for the next version of our products. The next step is to define the product specification based on the target feature list. The result is the specification document. Specification document defines the functional and non-functional characteristics to be offered by the product. In the process, two IT-systems are used: the production system and the version management system. The version management system only is a support for the production system. The production system consists of three components: the database system, the transaction middleware and the user interface.
I have a colleague in the department who is the product designer. In this role, he is responsible for minimizing the energy consumption of the heat pump. He is also in charge of the last step of the product innovation process: the product design. This process produces starts from the specification document, develops the design description and is the last step of the innovation process. 
